SKIP TO MAIN CONTENT
Xfinity official logo, Comcast official logo
SHOP
MY ACCOUNT
SUPPORT
MY XFINITY
COMCAST BUSINESS
Email
Xfinity Stream
SIGN IN
Xfinity Discovery Hub
Featured
 
Entertainment
 
Free TV & Movies
 
Internet
 
Mobile
 
Smart Home
Which Type of Internet Connection is Right for You?
Which Type of Internet Connection is Right for You? 
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on E-Mail
 
Internet connection options vary by Internet Service Provider and by region. Customers should consider some of the following factors before selecting an Internet package and Internet connection type: connection speed or bandwidth, cost, availability, reliability and convenience. In order to determine what Internet plan is right for you, we recommend you review the different types of Internet connections and connection speeds available on the market today.

Understanding The Differences Between Internet Connections
When determining which type of Internet speed and Internet connection type is right for you or your family, it's important to understand the distinction between each connection. In today's age, there are numerous ways to connect laptops, desktops, mobile phones, gaming consoles, e-readers and tablets to the Internet. Some of the most widely used Internet connections are described below.

MOBILE
Many cell phone and smartphone providers offer voice plans with Internet access. Mobile Internet connections provide good speeds and allow you to access the Internet.

WIFI HOTSPOTS
Wifi Hotspots are sites that offer Internet access over a wireless local area network (WLAN) by way of a router that then connects to an Internet service provider. Hotspots utilize WiFi technology, which allows electronic devices to connect to the Internet or exchange data wirelessly through radio waves. Hotspots can be phone-based or free-standing, commercial or free to the public.

DIAL-UP
Dial-up connections require users to link their phone line to a computer in order to access the Internet. This particular type of connection—also referred to as analog—does not permit users to make or receive phone calls through their home phone service while using the Internet. Now more outdated, a dial-up connection used to be among the most common Internet connection type.

BROADBAND
This high-speed Internet connection is provided through either cable or telephone companies. One of the fastest options available, broadband Internet uses multiple data channels to send large quantities of information. The term broadband is shorthand for broad bandwidth. Broadband Internet connections such as DSL and cable are considered high-bandwidth connections. Although many DSL connections can be considered broadband, not all broadband connections are DSL.

DSL
DSL, which stands for Digital Subscriber Line, uses existing 2-wire copper telephone line connected to one's home so service is delivered at the same time as landline telephone service. Customers can still place calls while surfing the Internet.

CABLE
Cable Internet connection is a form of broadband access. Through use of a cable modem, users can access the Internet over cable TV lines. Cable modems can provide extremely fast access to the Internet, making a cable connection a viable option for many.

SATELLITE
In certain areas where broadband connection is not yet offered, a satellite Internet option may be available. Similar to wireless access, satellite connection utilizes a modem.

ISDN
ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) allows users to send data, voice and video content over digital telephone lines or standard telephone wires. The installation of an ISDN adapter is required at both ends of the transmission—on the part of the user as well as the Internet access provider.

There are quite a few other Internet connection options available, including T-1 lines, T-3 lines, OC (Optical Carrier) and other DSL technologies.

As you decide what Internet connection is the best fit for your needs, you may wish to narrow down your selection based on your preferred download and upload speeds, or based on deals and pricing options. Reliably fast speeds and comprehensive coverage make it easier than ever to stream your favorite TV shows and movies, share photos, chat with friends and play games online.


Xfinity is proud to support the Federal Government’s Affordable Connectivity Program, a temporary subsidy program available for all tiers of Xfinity Internet service, including Internet Essentials. Learn more about the ACP Program to see if you qualify.

Tags ISP, Mobile, WiFi
xfinity internet
GET FASTER INTERNET
Get the reliable Internet speed you need at a price you'll love. Plus, enjoy the most in-home coverage and the control you need for the ultimate WiFi experience.

Shop Xfinity Holiday Deals
Trending Stories
ENTERTAINMENT
Xfinity has the fourth season of Stranger Things on Netflix plus bonus content on X1

ENTERTAINMENT
Xfinity Celebrates Pride Month!

FREE TV & MOVIES
Xfinity Rewards members can extend their Watchathon Week experience through May 24

ENTERTAINMENT
Time to get excited—Apple TV+ is now available on Xfinity.

ENTERTAINMENT
Top New Releases to Stream this March

ENTERTAINMENT
What's New on Xfinity Flex

INTERNET
The World of eSports With Help From Xfinity

I WANT TO
View & Pay Bill
Check Email & Voicemail
Manage My Account
Check TV Listings
Watch TV Online
Contact Customer Support
Refer-a-Friend
Get Apps
Manage Parental Controls
Manage Users & Alerts
Reset My Password
Find My Account Number
Monitor Home Security
Upgrade My Service
Find My Xfinity ID
Get Help & Support
Program My Remote
Submit Feedback
Find an Xfinity Store
Move My Services
Run Internet Speed Test
SHOP
Bundles & Promotions
TV
Internet
Voice
Home
Xfinity Mobile
Prepaid Internet
Customer Guarantee
Compare the Competition
Service in my Area
Student Offers
Teacher Offers
Military Offers
Comcast Business
ABOUT COMCAST
About Comcast
Advertise with Us
Careers
Press Room
Corporate Site
Customer Agreements & Policies
Xfinity Internet Broadband Disclosures
Social Responsibility
Privacy Center
Visitor Agreement
Discover Xfinity
Sitemap
Xfinity official logo, Comcast official logo
Ad Choices
Web Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
 Twitter - Follow us for exclusive deals
 YouTube – Find tutorials and demos
 Facebook – Reach out on Facebook
©  2022 COMCAST
